#summary Release notes for BDRS 1.0

= BDRS 1.0 Release Notes =

Welcome to BDRS 1.0!


== Known Issues ==
We’ve done our best to make BDRS 1.0 as solid as possible, but unfortunately there are a couple of issues that we know about in the release.

=== Creating records with a hidden latitude and longitude ===
When creating or editing a record for a project with hidden latitude and longitude fields, the map will still be displayed. You may click on the map and a point will appear but on submission no spatial data will be saved.

_Note that you will not be able to see your record on the map tab of the `MySightings` page because the record does not have a latitude and longitude._

This bug will be fixed in the next release of the BDRS.

=== Project access for child user groups ===
When configuring user group access to a project, only members of the specified group are given access to a project. For example,

 * Group A contains User X, User Y and Group B.
 * Group B contains User Z.

If Group A is added to a project and then only User X and User Y will have access to the project. User Z will not have access to the project.

=== Adding taxonomy groups to a project ===
When adding taxonomy groups to a project, only the taxa in the group at the time of submission will be added to the project. If a taxa is added to the group at a later time, this taxa will not be added to the project.

As a workaround you can edit the relevant project and re-save the group selection to add the missing taxa.